# 1.2.1 Blocks

Blocks are fundamental structures that organize and define different elements of configuration.

## Syntax of a block

Here's a generic template for a block:

```hcl
block_type "block_label" "name" {
  # Inside the block, you specify configuration settings
  key1 = "value1"
  key2 = "value2"
  # ...
}
```

Let's break down the components:

1.  **`block_type`:** This is the type of block you are defining.
2.  **`"block_label"`:** User-defined label in double quotes, distinguishing between multiple blocks of the same type.
3.  **`"name"`:** (optional) Additional identifier if required by the specific context.
4.  **`{}`:** Curly braces `{}` enclose the body of the block.
5.  **`key = "value"`:** Within the block, you set key-value pairs to configure the behavior of the block.

## Types of blocks

There are several types of blocks, each serving a specific purpose.

1.  **Provider Blocks:**

    - **Purpose:** Define the cloud or infrastructure provider for your configuration.
    - **Example:**

    ```hcl
    provider "aws" {
    region = "us-west-2"
    }
    ```

2.  **Resource Blocks:**

    - **Purpose:** Declare and configure resources that your infrastructure needs (e.g., virtual machines, databases, networks).
    - **Example:**

    ```hcl
    resource "aws_instance" "example" {
    ami           = "ami-0c55b159cbfafe1f0"
    instance_type = "t2.micro"
    }
    ```

    - **`resource`:** The block type.
    - **`"aws_instance"`:** The block label.
    - **`"example"`:** The instance name or identifier.

3.  **Locals Blocks:**

    - **Purpose:** Define local variables within your configuration. These variables are used to simplify complex expressions or to reuse values.
    - **Example:**

    ```hcl
    locals {
    subnet_cidr = "10.0.1.0/24"
    instance_count = 3
    }
    ```

4.  **Data Blocks:**

    - **Purpose:** Fetch and use data from external sources or existing infrastructure.
    - **Example:**

    ```hcl
    data "aws_ami" "latest_amazon_linux" {
    most_recent = true
    owners      = ["amazon"]

    filter {
        name   = "name"
        values = ["amzn2-ami-hvm-*-x86_64-gp2"]
        }
    }
    ```

5.  **Module Blocks:**

    - **Purpose:** Organize and reuse parts of your configuration by encapsulating them into modules.
    - **Example:**

    ```hcl
    module "example" {
    source = "./path/to/module"

    variable1 = "value1"
    variable2 = "value2"
    }
    ```

6.  **Variable Blocks:**

    - **Purpose:** Define variables that can be used throughout your configuration, promoting reusability.
    - **Example:**

    ```hcl
    variable "region" {
    type    = string
    default = "us-east-1"
    }
    ```

7.  **Output Blocks:**

    - **Purpose:** Specify values to be exposed after the configuration is applied, useful for getting information about the infrastructure.
    - **Example:**

    ```hcl
    output "instance_ip" {
    value = aws_instance.example.public_ip
    }
    ```

---
