# Modularization

## What is module?

A Terraform **module** is JUST a **directory** containing a structured set of configuration files that encapsulate resources, variables, and outputs. It acts as a modular and reusable unit of infrastructure code.

## Module Dir vs Module Block

1.  **Module Directory Structure:**

    - A Terraform module is a directory structure containing one or more Terraform configuration files.
    - These files typically include `main.tf`, `variables.tf`, `outputs.tf`, and possibly others.
    - This directory encapsulates a set of related infrastructure resources.

2.  **Module Block:**

    - The `module` block in your main Terraform configuration is where you declare the instantiation of a specific Terraform module.
    - This block is where you specify the location of the module, using the `source` attribute.
    - It tells Terraform where to find the module, and it can be a local path or a remote source (e.g., Git repository).

---

### Defining and Creating Modules:

1.  **Module Declaration:**

    - Define a module using the `module` block.
    - Example:

      ```hcl
      module "example" {
      source = "./path/to/module"

      variable1 = "value1"
      variable2 = "value2"
      }
      ```

2.  **Module Source:**

    - Specify the source location of the module (local or remote).
    - Example:

      ```hcl
      module "example" {
      source = "github.com/example/module.git"
      }
      ```

### Module Structure and Best Practices:

1.  **Module Structure:**

    - Organize modules with clear directory structures.
    - Example:

      ```arduino
      module/
      ├── main.tf
      ├── variables.tf
      └── outputs.tf
      ```

2.  **Input Variables:**

    - Define input variables in `variables.tf`.
    - Example:

      ```hcl
      variable "variable1" {
      type    = string
      default = "default_value"
      }
      ```

3.  **Outputs:**

    - Define outputs in `outputs.tf` for values to be exposed.
    - Example:

      ```hcl
      output "output1" {
      value = module.internal_module.output_value
      }
      ```

### Reusable Components in HCL:

1.  **Local Modules:**

    - Create modules within the same configuration.
    - Example:

      ```hcl
      module "internal_module" {
      source = "./path/to/internal_module"
      }
      ```

2.  **Remote Modules:**

    - Share modules remotely via version control systems.
    - Example:

      ```hcl
      module "external_module" {
      source = "github.com/example/external_module.git"
      }
      ```

3.  **Variable Reusability:**

    - Pass variables to modules for customization.
    - Example:

      ```hcl
      module "example" {
      source    = "./path/to/module"
      variable1 = var.custom_value
      }
      ```

---
