# Variables and data types

## Variables in HCL:

Variables in HCL allow you to parameterize your configurations, making them more flexible and reusable.
Here's a basic overview:

1.  **Variable Declaration:**

    - Syntax: `variable "name" { ... }`
    - Example:

    ```hcl
    variable "region" {
    type    = string
    default = "us-east-1"
    }
    ```

1.  **Variable Types:**

    - `string`: Represents text.
    - `number`: Represents numeric values.
    - `bool`: Represents true/false values.
    - `list`: Represents a list of values.
    - `map`: Represents a collection of key-value pairs.

1.  **Variable Usage:**

    - Use the variable in your configuration by referencing it with `var.name`.
    - Example:

    ```hcl
    resource "aws_instance" "example" {
    ami           = "ami-0123456789abcdef0"
    instance_type = "t2.micro"
    region        = var.region
    }
    ```

1.  **Default Values:**

    - Provide default values for variables using the `default` attribute.
    - Example:

    ```hcl
    variable "region" {
    type    = string
    default = "us-east-1"
    }
    ```

### Data Types in HCL:

HCL supports various data types, and understanding them is crucial for working with configurations effectively:

1.  **String:**

    - Represents a sequence of characters.
    - Example: `"Hello, HCL!"`

2.  **Number:**

    - Represents numeric values.
    - Example: `42`

3.  **Boolean:**

    - Represents true or false values.
    - Example: `true`

4.  **List:**

    - Represents an ordered collection of values.
    - Example: `["apple", "banana", "orange"]`

5.  **Map:**

    - Represents an unordered collection of key-value pairs.
    - Examples:
      - `map(string)`: `{"name" = "John", "age" = 30}`
      - `map(number)`: `{ "one" = 1, "two" = 2, "three" = 3 }`

6.  **Tuple:**

    - Represents an ordered collection of elements with each element able to have a different type.
    - Example: `["apple", 42, true]`

### Using Variables and Data Types Together:

You can use variables to dynamically set values based on your requirements, and these variables can hold different data types:

```hcl
variable "instance_type" {
  type    = string
  default = "t2.micro"
}

variable "tags" {
  type    = map(string)
  default = {"Name" = "example-instance", "Environment" = "dev"}
}

resource "aws_instance" "example" {
  ami           = "ami-0123456789abcdef0"
  instance_type = var.instance_type
  tags          = var.tags
}
```

In this example, `instance_type` is a string variable, and `tags` is a map variable. This allows you to customize the configuration based on different requirements.
