# 2.1 More on variables

### Default Values:

When you define a variable in HCL, you can specify a default value. The default value is used when no explicit value is provided during variable assignment. Here's an example:

```hcl
# Define a variable with a default value
variable "region" {
  type    = string
  default = "us-east-1"
}

# Use the variable in a resource block
resource "aws_instance" "example" {
  ami           = "ami-0123456789abcdef0"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
  region        = var.region
}
```

In this example, if you don't provide a value for `region` when using this module, it will default to "us-east-1". Default values are helpful for ensuring that your configuration works even when specific values aren't provided.

##### How do you provide values, so defaut values are overwritten?

- Assume above file to be `main.tf`.
- Apply with `-var` flag.
  ```bash
  terraform apply -var="region=us-west-2"
  ```
- we are overriding the default value of `us-east-1` with the provided value `us-west-2`.

- **Alternatively**, you can create a `terraform.tfvars` file in the same directory as your configuration and specify the variable values there:

  ```bash
  # terraform.tfvars

  region = "us-west-2"
  ```

- Now just use, `terraform apply`.

### Variable Interpolation:

Variable interpolation allows you to reference the value of one variable within the definition of another. It is achieved using the `${var.variable_name}` syntax. Here's an example:

```hcl
# Define two variables
variable "region" {
  type    = string
  default = "us-east-1"
}

variable "availability_zone" {
  type    = string
  default = "${var.region}a"
}

# Use the variables in a resource block
resource "aws_instance" "example" {
  ami           = "ami-0123456789abcdef0"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
  region        = var.region
  availability_zone = var.availability_zone
}
```

In this example, the `availability_zone` variable is assigned a value that includes the value of the `region` variable. This allows you to create a dynamic value based on the value of another variable.

---

## Variable Precedence:

1.  **Command-line Flags / Environment Variables:**

    - Highest Precedence
    - Example: `terraform apply -var="region=us-west-2"` or `export TF_VAR_region=us-west-2`

2.  **Variable Definitions in Configuration:**

    - Configuration files (`variable` block, variable files)
    - Override default values

3.  **Default Values in Configuration:**

    - If not overridden, default values are used

4.  **Hardcoded Values in Configuration:**

    - Lowest Precedence
    - Values directly specified in the configuration files

### Visual Representation:

```mathematica
1. Command-line Flags / Environment Variables
2. Variable Definitions in Configuration
3. Default Values in Configuration
4. Hardcoded Values in Configuration
```

- 1 is the highest Precedence and 4 is the lowest.

---

## special variables in Terraform

1.  **`terraform` Block Variables:**

    - `terraform.workspace`: Represents the name of the current workspace.

2.  **`count` and `for_each` Variables:**

    - `count.index`: Represents the current index when using the `count` argument.
    - `for_each.key` and `for_each.value`: Represent the key and value when using the `for_each` argument.

3.  **Resource-specific Variables:**

    - `resource.<TYPE>.<NAME>.id`: Represents the unique identifier for a specific resource instance.
    - `resource.<TYPE>.<NAME>.count`: Represents the count index for a specific resource instance when using `count`.

4.  **Input Variable:**

    - `var.<VARIABLE_NAME>`: Represents the value of an input variable.

5.  **Environment Variables:**

    - `TF_VAR_<VARIABLE_NAME>`: Represents the value of an environment variable.

---
